food that is cooked in front of you is
always the freshest and I like to watch
closely how it's made so I can replicate
the flavors at home so today what I'm
doing is I'm making a chicken clay pot
it's kind of like a casserole and this
has got all of your typical flavors of
Vietnam in there you see these clay pots
being prepared everywhere on the street
often they just throw the clay pot over
some hot coals and just let it bubble
away slowly and all the smell that comes
off them is just gorgeous first thing I
need is to grate some of this beautiful
fresh ginger I love fresh ginger the
smell of it when you first cut it open
is just it's really evocative of Vietnam
so I've got about a tablespoon there of
my ginger and you don't have to always
stick to the recipe
absolutely it's sort of a little bit to
taste just use it as a bit of a
guideline now with my chilies what I'm
doing here is if you roll in between
your hands then what happens is some of
the seeds start to loosen up in there
it's really great you can sort of hear
them rattling around in there so I
always do that
it's the seeds really of a chili and
this in a white vein that kind of
carries most of the heat and the larger
chilies and the larger the chili the
less hot they are I kind of need an
onion so now I just get all of this into
my bowl so I'm using a couple of fresh
limes today there's all my fresh
ingredients I've got my ginger in there
my Chili's my onions and now this citrus
going on and they're beautiful
so I've got some lovely rice wine
vinegar here a couple of tablespoons of
that and some soy sauce pretty dark soy
sauce I use for this particular dish now
and with my fish sauce and here's some
regular cooking oil as well I'm just
gonna pop it in so now the magic
ingredient they use it's such a lot in
Vietnam and in others of Southeast Asian
countries and that is palm sugar and I
love it you can find this in an Asian
food store or in the international
section of your local supermarket and
what it is is it's actually coconut palm
sugar
and they've boiled and rended it down so
that it's begun to caramelize so it's
just got this incredibly deep flavor if
you don't have it you can use brown
sugar as well just use slightly less
than the recipe recommends for the palm
sugar so now what I've got in here is
just all my flavorings that are going to
just really start to excite that chicken
this is a really good dish for chicken
breast because bris can be slightly dry
in this little clay pot it's going to be
like a little moist environment for it
to cook and so it's just perfect and
chicken breast is really healthy not a
lot of fat or nut so it's a really good
healthy dish great give that a nice stir
make sure that that chicken is really
well coated I love my clay pot you can
pick them up at Asian food stores
they're not expensive and they're really
versatile and vessels to cook it if you
don't have one of these you can use just
a casserole dish or any dish that's
covered in foil just to keep that nice
and close to space and we go love about
this is that there is no marinating
required because this is just going to
slowly develop in the oven and because
of the closed environment you just got
this little heat vessel which is going
to really start letting those flavors
develop hugely so that's in there on a
medium oven 200 degrees Celsius and I'm
gonna have that in there for about 45
minutes
rice is a really great match for this
play pot it can really soak up all those
delicious juices that come out of the
chicken off so I've got a cup of rice
and it goes and now I want two cups of
water and I start off always with cold
water Liv goes on once it's come to the
boil lift the lid off give it a quick
stir and then put that lid on turn on
your light down and don't be tempted to
lift it again just let it simmer until
all that water has disappeared and then
turn the heat off and just let it sit
and steam for an extra couple of minutes
and it really does depend on your stove
a little bit in terms of how long it's
going to take but I'm gonna guess at
about 10 to 12 minutes for most of you
anyway so to dish this up in Vietnam
they often have these beautiful big
piles of your rice or your noodles and
what you tend to do is just add all
these lovely lovely hoobs so the two
hoobs that I'm going to use our
coriander and Vietnamese mint if you
don't have the Vietnamese mint that's
fine just go with coriander to smell
some of that beautiful aroma so let's
have a look and see what this looks like
oh it looks so juicy and moist because
it's been cooking in its little little
clay pot
and that is beautiful there's this hit
of ginger and chili and they're chased
up by the lovely sweetness of this palm
sugar that is divine